---
layout: post
title: Beginning of infinity
date: 2023-08-05
description: A case for beginning of infinity at D. E. Shaw
tags: psych
categories: personal 
disqus_comments: true
related_posts: true
---
On July 19th, 2023, there was a big meeting at D. E. Shaw’s office in India, where I work as a software engineer. The purpose of the meeting was to bring together important leaders from the New York and Hyderabad offices to talk about the company's future plans, challenges, and strategies. Something really interesting happened during the meeting when a top boss unexpectedly said, "We might run out of ideas." This got me thinking because it pointed out a big risk and showed how important it is to always come up with new and creative trading strategies, especially as the old ones become less effective over time.

Is it possible to continuously improve trading strategies and continue to generate profits indefinitely? There is a somewhat reasonable argument suggesting that all trading strategies employed by various firms would strive for maximum efficiency, leading to a potential state of equilibrium where further optimization becomes unlikely. In this hypothetical scenario, all trading strategies across firms would reach an equilibrium, efficient state, making further improvement seemingly impossible.

This is where David Deutch's mind-bending book, "Beginning of Infinity," presents a compelling argument favouring infinite progress, from which one could infer the continuous improvement of trading algorithms. The book asserts that as long as error correction mechanisms are integrated into a system (as is inherent in trading markets), the system can infinitely self-improve. It posits that anything allowed by the physical laws of nature can be achieved through the continual generation of knowledge and error-correcting mechanisms.

Getting the full grasp of this never-ending progress notion needs more than a quick summary. That's why I enthusiastically encourage diving into "Beginning of Infinity." This book stands as the most impactful read in my life thus far. 

The title, "Beginning of Infinity," is really interesting: Within an infinite set of whole numbers, any number you select (e.g., 10<sup>82</sup> &asymp; the number of atoms in the universe) will always be <i>unusually</i> close to 0 (i.e., the beginning). Hence, in the grand scheme of infinity, we are always at the beginning – beginning of infinity – always.



